We are going to be getting into something called coercion, but before we do, you just need to start
understanding operators.
And again, don't get intimidated by all these fancy words. You already know what an operator is. An operator
just performs an operation on single or multiple values. It just performs an action.
Let's look at the example 1 + 2.
That plus sign is the operator.
I told you, you would know what the operator is already.
And in programming languages, the one is referred to as the "left operand" and the two is referred to
as the "right operand".
And in this case, because there are two operands, that plus sign is known as a binary operator.
But anyway, we'll get into that shortly.
Let's keep moving on.
We've seen a lot of operators at school, you know, the plus sign, the multiplication sign, the minus
sign, divide sign etc. And in JavaScript, you get different types of operators.
You get these ones that we're familiar with, you and I from school, but you also get others and they're all
classified within their different types.
I'm not going to go into detail now into each one.
You'll see it throughout the course
we're going to be using these different types of operators,
so feel free to pause the video and go over these in more detail.
I'm going to go over them very quickly here.
So one type of operator is called the arithmetic operators.
Another type is assignment operators.
You've got boolean operators.
And you've got string operators.
And spoiler alert, this might be a bit too advanced right now, but we are going to get into the stuff
later
and that is what's known as the ternary operator - that just assigns a value to a variable based on some
condition aka: if this condition is true, give it this value,
otherwise give it another venue.
So it's quite a cool new operator, which we will see later on in the course.
Something else I just want to touch on quickly before we move on, and this is important for you to
understand, it's the difference between unitary operators and binary operators.
Remember, at the beginning we had 1 + 2, and I said that the plus was a binary operator because it had
two operands.
So what's a unary operator? An operator is unary if it only has a single operand.
So let's take the example "x = -10".
That negative, that minus sign, is a unary operator. And, an operator is binary
if it's got 2 operands - we've already seen this.
So you could say that the plus sign, and others actually as a matter of fact, exist in two forms.
In the binary form and in the unary form.
And let me quickly show you an example of how JavaScript treats these two.
But just bear in mind the one that JavaScript prefers, or the one that JavaScript gives preference
to, is the unary operator.
Let me show you an example quickly, so you'll understand.